content/tech/tesla.md, before:

---
date: 2013-07-01
linktitle: Tesla protocol
menu:
  main:
    parent: tech
title: Tesla protocol
description: Communication protocols between dedicated server and central server
weight: 80
aliases:
    - /tech/ds-cs-communication/
---

This document describes how the Dedicated Server (DS) and Central Server (CS) communicate.

The DS opens a TCP connection to the CS. Mssages between the DS and CS are serialized with protobuf. Because protobuf does not provide a data encapsulation format for tcp, the messages on the TCP connection are encapsulated in a custom binary format.

# Message serialization

Message serialization is achieved with Google's protobuf. For more information about protobuf itself, read the [protobuf documentation pages](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/overview).

Protobuf structure definitions are created for the different message types that can be sent

# Encapsulation

The serialized message is sent in a custom data envelope following a simple scheme:

 - 2 bytes uint16: message type (event code)
 - 4 bytes message length (n)
 - n bytes message

The hard limit for a single message is: 6+(2^32) bytes (~4.3GB). (A softlimit should be used to avoid ddos attacks. The value of the soft limit can be decided after implementation.)


## Security & TLS
The initial protocol will not use TLS. The information transmitted over the TCP connections won't contain 

## Message type
The message type indicates which type of data is encoded. In most cases this will also indicate the event for which the data was sent.

 - Player join
 - Player leave
 - Chat message
 - etc.

Each of these types relates to a protobuf structure definition which can be used to decode the data.

# Protocol magic
When the DS opens a new connection to the CS, at first a 4-byte protocol magic value is sent to identify that the incomming connection is (probably) a valid ORAZ DS<->CS connection. It's not a 100% foolproof method, but helps in filtering away most erroneous connections.

# Sequence

TODO: sequence of messages between DS and CS

Commit message:

Add link to tesla repo

content/tech/tesla.md, after:

---
date: 2013-07-01
linktitle: Tesla protocol
menu:
  main:
    parent: tech
title: Tesla protocol
description: Communication protocols between dedicated server and central server
weight: 80
aliases:
    - /tech/ds-cs-communication/
---

This document describes how the Dedicated Server (DS) and Central Server (CS) communicate.

The DS opens a TCP connection to the CS. Mssages between the DS and CS are serialized with protobuf. Because protobuf does not provide a data encapsulation format for tcp, the messages on the TCP connection are encapsulated in a custom binary format.

# Message serialization

Message serialization is achieved with Google's protobuf. For more information about protobuf itself, read the [protobuf documentation pages](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/overview).

Protobuf message definitions are located at [github.com/OpenRA-Zone/tesla](https://github.com/OpenRA-Zone/tesla).

Protobuf structure definitions are created for the different message types that can be sent

# Encapsulation

The serialized message is sent in a custom data envelope following a simple scheme:

 - 2 bytes uint16: message type (event code)
 - 4 bytes message length (n)
 - n bytes message

The hard limit for a single message is: 6+(2^32) bytes (~4.3GB). (A softlimit should be used to avoid ddos attacks. The value of the soft limit can be decided after implementation.)


## Security & TLS
The initial protocol will not use TLS. The information transmitted over the TCP connections won't contain 

## Message type
The message type indicates which type of message is serialized.

 - Player join
 - Player leave
 - Chat message
 - etc.

Each of these types relates to a protobuf structure definition which can be used to decode the data.

# Protocol magic
When the DS opens a new connection to the CS, at first a 4-byte protocol magic value is sent to identify that the incomming connection is (probably) a valid ORAZ DS<->CS connection. It's not a 100% foolproof method, but helps in filtering away most erroneous connections.

# Sequence

TODO: sequence of messages between DS and CS
